Add spec for Dynamic Sampling Context (#613)
getsentry/develop: src/docs/sdk/performance/dynamic-sampling-context.mdx

---
title: "Dynamic Sampling Context (Experimental)"
---

<Alert level="warning">

This page is under active development.
Specifications are not final and subject to change.
Anything that sounds fishy probably is.

</Alert>

Until now, traces sampling was only done through a `sample_rate` option in the SDKs.

> This has quite a few drawbacks for users of Sentry SDKs:

Reviewer: Isn't `tracesSampleRate`? if it's for traces.
`sampleRate` is only for events.

Author: Yes sir you are correct. Thanks for pointing this out. Fixed in 6cdc5699e8486b30c823cefc58fd215dfe38b1a7.

Reviewer: Nice, I'd look up the usage of this name in the docs tho, there are more references to `sample_rate` or `sampleRate`, such as `sentry-samplerate`.

Author: Good point. I changed it to camel case and added links to the relevant sections in the docs (where it is also in camel case): 1a27b856d548737ea824e9f09404c3d44ef9c933

2. Propagating DSC to downstream SDKs.
3. Sending the DSC to Sentry via an envelope.

Because there are quite a few things to keep in mind for DSC propagation and to avoid every SDK running into the same problems, we defined a [unified propagation mechanism](#unified-propagation-mechanism) (step-by-step instructions) that all SDK implementations should be able to follow.

## Baggage

We chose `baggage` as the propagation mechanism for DSC. ([w3c baggage spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/baggage/))
Baggage is a standard HTTP header with URI encoded key-value pairs.

For the propagation of DSC, SDKs first read the DSC from the baggage header of incoming requests/messages.
To propagate DSC to downstream SDKs/services, we create a baggage header (or modify an existing one) through HTTP request instrumentation.

<Alert level="info">

Other vendors might also be using the `baggage` header.
If a `baggage` header already exists on an outgoing request, SDKs should aim to be good citizens by only **appending** Sentry values to the header.
In the case that another vendor added Sentry values to an outgoing request, SDKs may overwrite those values.

> SDKs must not add other vendors' baggage from incoming requests to outgoing requests.

Reviewer 2: So devs have to add incoming baggage headers to outgoing requests themselves. If it's already there we just add our list-items to the outgoing baggage header(s). If no baggage header is present we add one with our list-items if our options tell us to do so, correct?

Author: Yes correct, we already discussed this quite extensively within the JS SDK team. If users want to propagate baggage in general, they can propagate it themselves (or use libraries specifically for that). Sentry SDKs should only propagate `sentry-*` entries in the baggage header.

Mental model: Sentry SDKs are not trace-context/baggage propagation libraries - they are Sentry SDKs.

If anybody has strong opinions against this however, we can reopen the discussion on this.

```

See the [Payloads section](#payloads) for a complete list of key-value pairs that SDKs should propagate.

## Payloads

Dynamic Sampling Context is propagated via a baggage header and sent to Sentry via <Link to="/sdk/envelopes/#transaction">transaction envelope headers</Link>.

### Baggage-Header

SDKs may set the following key-value pairs on baggage headers.
While all of these values are optional, SDKs should make their best effort to add as many of them to the baggage header as possible when starting a trace.

- `sentry-traceid` - The original trace ID as generated by the SDK
- `sentry-publickey` - Public key as defined by the user via the DSN in the SDK options
- `sentry-release` - The release as defined by the user in the SDK options
- `sentry-environment` - The environment as defined by the user in the SDK options
- `sentry-transaction` - The name of the trace's origin transaction in unparameterized (raw) format
- `sentry-userid` - User ID as set by the user with <Link to="/sdk/unified-api/#scope">`scope.set_user`</Link>
- `sentry-usersegment` - User segment as set by the user with <Link to="/sdk/unified-api/#scope">`scope.set_user`</Link>

> - `sentry-samplerate` - Sample rate as defined by the user in the SDK options

Reviewer 2: How should the sample rate be formatted? Do we have a max number of decimal points?

Reviewer 3: Good question, in the JS SDK, we're currently just calling `toString` on the sample rate number which caps it per default at 16 decimal points. Happy to change it if we decide to handle this uniformly across SDKs

SDKs must set all of the keys in the form of "`sentry-[name]`".

> The delimiter "`sentry-`" acts to identify key-value pairs set by Sentry SDKs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The prefix "`sentry-`" acts to identify key-value pairs set by Sentry SDKs.
```

Additionally, we chose `[name]` to be written in "snake case" without any underscore ( `_` ) characters. This naming convention is the most language agnostic.

### Envelope Header

Dynamic Sampling Context is transferred to Sentry through the <Link to="/sdk/envelopes/#transaction">transaction envelope headers</Link>, keyed by `trace`.
It corresponds directly to the definition of <Link to="/sdk/performance/trace-context/#trace-context">Trace Context</Link>.

When a transaction is reported to Sentry, the Dynamic Sampling Context must be mapped to Trace Context in the following way:

- `sentry-release` ➝ `release`
- `sentry-environment` ➝ `environment`
- `sentry-transaction` ➝ `transaction`
- `sentry-userid` ➝ `user.id`
- `sentry-usersegment` ➝ `user.segment`
- `sentry-samplerate` ➝ `sample_rate`
- `sentry-traceid` ➝ `trace_id`
- `sentry-publickey` ➝ `public_key`

## Unified Propagation Mechanism

Todo:

- incoming request algorithm
- outgoing request algorithm

## Considerations

Todo:

> - Why baggage and not trace context https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context/?

Reviewer 2: Trace context is more restrictive in terms of size than baggage. Also baggage is more flexible in terms of encoding and characters according to our internal document on the decision.

### SDKs

SDKs are responsible for propagating **Dynamic Sampling Context** across all applications that are part of a trace.
This involves:

1. Collecting the information that makes up the DSC **xor** extracting the DSC from incoming requests.
2. Propagating DSC to downstream SDKs.
3. Sending the DSC to Sentry via an envelope.

Because there are quite a few things to keep in mind for DSC propagation and to avoid every SDK running into the same problems, we defined a [unified propagation mechanism](#unified-propagation-mechanism) (step-by-step instructions) that all SDK implementations should be able to follow.

## Baggage

We chose `baggage` as the propagation mechanism for DSC. ([w3c baggage spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/baggage/))
Baggage is a standard HTTP header with URI encoded key-value pairs.

For the propagation of DSC, SDKs first read the DSC from the baggage header of incoming requests/messages.
To propagate DSC to downstream SDKs/services, we create a baggage header (or modify an existing one) through HTTP request instrumentation.

<Alert level="info">

Other vendors might also be using the `baggage` header.

> If a `baggage` header already exists on an outgoing request, SDKs should aim to be good citizens by only **appending** Sentry values to the header.

Reviewer 2: For incoming `baggage` that already contains `sentry-` list-items:

* We do not modify existing ones as we want to keep them the way they were sent by the first SDK in line, right?
* Does that also mean we do not add missing list-items? Assuming `userid` was not set by the first SDK but another SDK knows it, should it add the list-item to `baggage` and other places or keep them the way they were sent by the first SDK?

Author: As Dynamic Sampling Context is immutable across an entire trace, we cannot add additional `sentry-` list items when there are incoming ones. The reasoning for immutability is explained in the #ingest section of this doc - essentially relay needs to make exactly the same sampling decision for all individual transactions of a trace. This requires all transactions to have the exact same Dynamic Sampling Context. 

I added the pseudo algorithm of how SDKs should instrument incoming and outgoing requests in regards to DSC. I hope that clarifies this a bit: 3f1302481d4cbbb0e364fdcf2fae34d8324ad297

Reviewer 3: >We do not modify existing ones as we want to keep them the way they were sent by the first SDK in line, right?
Correct

> Does that also mean we do not add missing list-items?
Also Correct

Author: Also added some sentences to explain this a little bit more explicitly: ec30942000b971681c4767a8c4bed2aefa0f378e

Reviewer 4: Let’s also make it very clear that we should not delete or change existing non-sentry baggage values (and this this very very important).

Reviewer 4: > Does this mean that if an incoming baggage header is close to the limit of 8192 characters we are not allowed to add our sentry list-items to the header?

Yes we need to be good citizens and respect the standard here.

> Does that mean we should add them in an all or nothing fashion or do we have a priority for which of them we want to try and add until we run out of characters?

I don't think we have a priority, we try to add what we can. I'd stay away from the all-or-nothing approach since that seems it might be confusing to users (not sure though). I'm comfortable enough with this for now since the vast majority of head SDK's (those creating the head transactions of a trace) will be from browser/mobile, which should not have problems with incoming baggage - only outgoing. As a result, we won't really hit this to start, and when if it ever becomes a substantial problem, I think we can come back and revisit. For now, let's just optimize for getting this out the door.

Reviewer 3: >I don't think we have a priority, we try to add what we can

I agree - let's try to keep things simple for now. In case this really becomes a problem, we could still revisit this and discuss priorities of keys or other handling strategies.

For now, if we exceed the max length, we should log a warning though so that users/we are aware of why DSC might be propagated/sent incomplete in this case. 
(Which is what we're [currently doing](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-javascript/blob/06d573f3d68b21efea81aef222755f14b1c6805a/packages/utils/src/baggage.ts#L84-L90) in the JS SDKs).

- `sentry-publickey` - Public key as defined by the user via the DSN in the SDK options
- `sentry-release` - The release as defined by the user in the SDK options
- `sentry-environment` - The environment as defined by the user in the SDK options
- `sentry-transaction` - The name of the trace's origin transaction in unparameterized (raw) format
- `sentry-userid` - User ID as set by the user with <Link to="/sdk/unified-api/#scope">`scope.set_user`</Link>
- `sentry-usersegment` - User segment as set by the user with <Link to="/sdk/unified-api/#scope">`scope.set_user`</Link>
- `sentry-samplerate` - Sample rate as defined by the user in the SDK options

SDKs must set all of the keys in the form of "`sentry-[name]`".
The delimiter "`sentry-`" acts to identify key-value pairs set by Sentry SDKs.
Additionally, we chose `[name]` to be written in "snake case" without any underscore ( `_` ) characters. This naming convention is the most language agnostic.

### Envelope Header

Dynamic Sampling Context is transferred to Sentry through the <Link to="/sdk/envelopes/#transaction">transaction envelope headers</Link>, keyed by `trace`.

> It corresponds directly to the definition of <Link to="/sdk/performance/trace-context/#trace-context">Trace Context</Link>.

Reviewer 2: What's the urgency on renaming TraceContext to Dynamic Sampling Context for SDKs?

Author: I think those are still more or less different concepts. The word `Dynamic Sampling Context` represents the sentry-* values we propagate in the baggage header. The term `TraceContext` is incredibly overloaded - in the docs I just wrote it simply refers to the object schema over at https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/performance/trace-context/#trace-context

I know in SDKs there are some fields called for example`event.contexts.trace` but those fields are something else again. Right now we only care about Dynamic Sampling Context propagation in baggage and `TraceContext` in the event envelope header.

Reviewer 2: I was referring to this comment https://github.com/getsentry/develop/issues/611#issuecomment-1161929944 and comments following it.

Reviewer 3: Sorry to jump in here but what we proposed was to find a good term for the data we want to *both*, propagate to downstream SDKs (i.e. via the baggage Http header) *and* send to Relay (via the `trace` envelope header). That data should be the same, however, it is structured differently (as pointed out in the docs added by this PR). 

The reasons for introducing "Dynamic Sampling Context" (DSC) were already mentioned: Trace Context is an overloaded term, we observed a lot of confusion around terms like "baggage", "trace state", "trace context", etc. and DSC should aim to unify this as much as possible. We're aware that Relay is currently calling the `trace` envelope header `TraceContext`. IMO it's not as important to change this right now but to rather have a term we can all agree on when talking about _what_ we actually propagate/send.  

Discussed this with @lforst and we agree on that

Reviewer 2: So DSC is what we use to internally to transport tracing information from an incoming request that may exist or the place it where the tracing information is created in the SDK (that's first in line) to the outgoing request (be that an API call or an envelope sent to Sentry).

Would it make sense to find a name for the "first in line" SDK to more easily refer to it? e.g. head SDK?

> When a transaction is reported to Sentry, the Dynamic Sampling Context must be mapped to Trace Context in the following way:

Reviewer 2: I thought the `sentry-` prefix was for baggage and we wanted to rename Trace Context to Dynamic Sampling Context?

Author: Kinda answered this already somewhere else: The term `Dynamic Sampling Context` refers to `sentry-*` values in the baggage header. Trace Context is something different (object schema in transaction envelope header).

Reviewer 3: I'll resolve this because the [discussion](https://github.com/getsentry/develop/pull/613#discussion_r903583558) about this happened in another thread in this PR. Feel free to reopen if necessary

---
title: "Dynamic Sampling Context (Experimental)"
---

<Alert level="warning">

This page is under active development.
Specifications are not final and subject to change.
Anything that sounds fishy probably is.

</Alert>

> Until now, traces sampling was only done through a `traces_sample_rate` option in the SDKs.

Author: Thanks! added in 1a27b856d548737ea824e9f09404c3d44ef9c933

This has quite a few drawbacks for users of Sentry SDKs:

- Changing the sampling rate involved either redeploying applications (which is problematic in case of applications that are not updated automatically, i.e., mobile apps or physically distributed software) or building complex systems to dynamically fetch a sampling rate.

> - Sampling only happened based on a factor of randomness.

Reviewer 4: Sampling is happening based on head based, probability sampling (in this case, simple random sampling)

Author: Do you have a suggestion on how to reword this? I am kinda lost.

Reviewer 4: Let me think about this and try to push up a commit later today.

  Employing sampling rules, for example, based on event parameters, is currently very complex.
  While writing rules for singular **transactions** is possible, enforcing them on an entire **trace** is infeasable.

The solution for these problems is **Dynamic Sampling**.

> Dynamic Sampling allows users to configure **sampling rules** directly in the Sentry interface. Important: Sampling rules may also be applied to **entire traces**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Dynamic Sampling allows users to configure **sampling rules** directly in the Sentry interface. Important: Sampling rules may be applied to **entire traces** or to a **single transaction**.
```

When a transaction is reported to Sentry, the Dynamic Sampling Context must be mapped to the `trace` envelope header in the following way:

- `sentry-release` ➝ `release`
- `sentry-environment` ➝ `environment`
- `sentry-transaction` ➝ `transaction`
- `sentry-userid` ➝ `user.id`
- `sentry-usersegment` ➝ `user.segment`
- `sentry-samplerate` ➝ `sample_rate`
- `sentry-traceid` ➝ `trace_id`
- `sentry-publickey` ➝ `public_key`

## Unified Propagation Mechanism

SDKs should follow these steps for any incoming and outgoing requests (in python pseudo-code for illustrative purposes):

```python
def collect_dynamic_sampling_context():
  # Placeholder function that collects as many values for Dynamic Sampling Context
  # as possible and returns a dict

def on_incoming_request(request):
  if has_header(request, "sentry-trace") and (not has_header(request, "baggage") or not has_sentry_value_in_baggage_header(request)):
    # Request comes from an old SDK which doesn't support Dynamic Sampling Context yet
    # --> we don't propagate baggage for this trace
    transaction.baggage_locked = true
    transaction.baggage = {}

>   elif has_header(request, "baggage") and has_sentry_value_in_baggage_header(request):

Reviewer 2: How does `has_sentry_value_in_baggage_header` work?

Is there a specific list of list-items we need to be present for dynamic sampling to work?
I assume `samplerate` and `publickey` are required, are other fields as well?
Some of them are optional.

Author: > How does has_sentry_value_in_baggage_header work?

Added a pseudo implementation of the function to clarify: 0513094258f61cecaa3deddd390575e7d37a91b7 - We simply check if there is a key in the baggage header that starts with "sentry-" or not.

> Is there a specific list of list-items we need to be present for dynamic sampling to work?

There is no list yet but tried to clarify in 4a7508fdca382eb587fe7e2783257ed7fd064af4. I believe for DS we need `samplerate`, `publickey` and `traceid`. However I should note that right here we don't care at all about what values are actually needed. If something is missing in an incoming request, we propagate DSC as is, and don't try to add stuff. I again wanna put emphasis on the fact that DSC cannot be mutated (by the origin application or any application down the line) as soon it has been propagated.

- `sentry-usersegment` - User segment as set by the user with <Link to="/sdk/unified-api/#scope">`scope.set_user`</Link>.

All of these values are required in a sense, that when they are known to the head SDK at the time of propagation, they must also be propagated.
In any case, `sentry-traceid`, `sentry-publickey`, `sentry-samplerate` should always be known to the SDK, so these values are strictly required.

SDKs must set all of the keys in the form of "`sentry-[name]`".
The prefix "`sentry-`" acts to identify key-value pairs set by Sentry SDKs.
Additionally, we chose `[name]` to be written in "snake case" without any underscore ( `_` ) characters. This naming convention is the most language agnostic.

### Envelope Header

Dynamic Sampling Context is transferred to Sentry through the `trace` envelope header.
The value of this header corresponds directly to the definition of <Link to="/sdk/performance/trace-context/#trace-context">Trace Context</Link>.

When a transaction is reported to Sentry, the Dynamic Sampling Context must be mapped to the `trace` envelope header in the following way:

> - `sentry-traceid` ➝ `trace_id`

Reviewer 5: do we want to map this? my impression is that we don't want to

Author: This is still a WIP. I just need to get to it ^^ I will probably remove this mapping section and document that we want to just dump all the baggage key-value pairs (minus `sentry-` prefixes) onto the `trace` envelope header.

Author: Or are you talking specifically about trace id?

Reviewer 5: all good! yeah and trace_id should probably not be in baggage as @mitsuhiko said at some point (since we have it in another header)

Author: I removed the mapping section in e8fca9adf32318354aae68f227233e06ac19e013.

As for the trace_id: we discussed this within the JS SDK team and @AbhiPrasad [already commented](https://github.com/getsentry/develop/pull/613#discussion_r904494827) about what we agree on. (In general, having it here would just increase our QoL in the SDK tremendously)

Worth mentioning: We can remove the `trace_id` from the baggage header later on if we notice that desyncing becomes a problem. Removing it shouldn't brake anyone.

Reviewer 5: cc @mitsuhiko who had this concern

---
title: "Dynamic Sampling Context (Experimental)"
---

<Alert level="warning">

This page is under active development.
Specifications are not final and subject to change.
Anything that sounds fishy probably is.

</Alert>

Until now, traces sampling was only done through the <Link to="/sdk/performance/#tracessamplerate">`tracesSampleRate`</Link> or <Link to="/sdk/performance/#tracessampler">`tracesSampler`</Link> options in the SDKs.

> This has quite a few drawbacks for users of Sentry SDKs:

Author: Great suggestion! 45b444c6166a980b22e685d3b08d899e6dc0acd2

> - Changing the sampling rate involved either redeploying applications (which is problematic in case of applications that are not updated automatically, i.e., mobile apps or physically distributed software) or building complex systems to dynamically fetch a sampling rate.

Author: 35e91370b33d2dad9875d36d106d976d393cf163

- Sampling only happened based on a factor of randomness.

>   Employing sampling rules, for example, based on event parameters, is currently very complex.
>   While writing rules for singular **transactions** is possible, enforcing them on entire **traces** is infeasable.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 - Employing sampling rules, for example, based on event parameters, is very complex.
 - While writing rules for singular **transactions** is possible, enforcing them on entire **traces** is infeasible.
```

Author: 35e91370b33d2dad9875d36d106d976d393cf163

SDKs must not add other vendors' baggage from incoming requests to outgoing requests.
Sentry SDKs only concern themselves with Sentry baggage.

</Alert>

The following is an example of what a baggage header containing Dynamic Sampling Context may look like:

```
baggage: other-vendor-value-1=foo;bar;baz, sentry-traceid=771a43a4192642f0b136d5159a501700, sentry-publickey=49d0f7386ad645858ae85020e393bef3; sentry-userid=Am%C3%A9lie, other-vendor-value-2=foo;bar;
```

See the [Payloads section](#payloads) for a complete list of key-value pairs that SDKs should propagate.

## Payloads

Dynamic Sampling Context is propagated via a baggage header and sent to Sentry via the `trace` envelope header.

### Baggage-Header

SDKs may set the following key-value pairs on baggage headers.
While none of these values are strictly required, SDKs should make their best effort to add as many of them to the baggage header as possible when starting a trace.

Some values are marked as "required for Dynamic sampling to work".
Nothing bad is going to happen when these values are missing, however, Dynamic Sampling will not work without them.

> - `sentry-traceid` - **Required for Dynamic Sampling to work** - The original trace ID as generated by the SDK.

Reviewer 5: All of these are required for dynamic sampling to work. Trace sampling rules match on release/environment from this baggage header, not the event content

Author: Are they *really* required though? What if a user doesn't have an environment set but a user id? Do we want to prevent users from using DS when they don't have environments?

Reviewer 5: i mean that if the sdk knows an environment, it needs to be in that baggage. in that sense it is required. if not then dyn sampling is broken, because the user will configure an environment and won't be able to sample by it

Reviewer 7: Why is `traceid` needed? Is that not already in the `sentry-trace` header? That seems redundant and error prone.

Reviewer 4: We put this in from the original dynamic sampling implementation (one with tracestate as the propogation mechanism) - it was just inherited from the old spec. 

Copy pasting an exchange from slack for some added context here:

Armin:
> but the need for sentry-traceid is not obvious to me

Abhi:
> It's for the dynamic sampling logic right? So we can peek in the envelope header to grab the trace_id without having to reach into the event payload. Otherwise how would relay know about the trace?

Armin: 
> relay would still need it in the `trace` header but sdk to sdk communication does not need to pass it in the baggage header. 
> basically we would treat it as special item in the baggage that is sent to relay but not between sdks as it’s already in `sentry-trace`
> **i worry about this desyncing**

I'd rather just keep `traceid` in the Dynamic Sampling Context (DSC) that propogated with baggage to simplify the implementation. Since baggage should be travelling alongside `sentry-trace` at all points, I can't see a a way that it would ever get out of sync. Having baggage and the envelope header have identical Dynamic Sampling Context makes it much easier to understand and debug + prevents the need for us to go back and change the SDKs yet again. I think the friction that comes from trying to drop `traceid` in just baggage specifically is not worth it - and it's not that hard for us to revisit if needed.

Author: > i mean that if the sdk knows an environment, it needs to be in that baggage. in that sense it is required. if not then dyn sampling is broken, because the user will configure an environment and won't be able to sample by it

@untitaker Yeah I see the problem now. Updated the wording to clarify: 67b98b2f75474dd52572263f246a84af65600039

> - `sentry-publickey` - **Required for Dynamic Sampling to work** - Public key as defined by the user via the DSN in the SDK options.

Reviewer 7: I would name this just `key`. We already no longer have a private key on DSNs in use any more and it shaves off some bytes.

Reviewer 4: It's named `public_key` in Relay, it would be nice to make it just `key`, but I think the SDKs should follow the relay names for the dynamic sampling context as much as possible https://github.com/getsentry/relay/blob/b23b8d3b2360a54aaa4d19ecae0231201f31df5e/relay-sampling/src/lib.rs#L691.

Author: We should mention here that the plan for the future is to 1:1-dump key-value pairs from the `baggage` header directly onto the trace envelope header. If we are done with that, shorter/longer keys will not have an effect on bundle size anymore.

> - `sentry-samplerate` - **Required for Dynamic Sampling to work** - Sample rate as defined by the user in the SDK options.

Reviewer 7: likewise we could name this `sentry-rate`

- `sentry-release` - The release as defined by the user in the SDK options.
- `sentry-environment` - The environment as defined by the user in the SDK options.
- `sentry-transaction` - The name of the trace's origin transaction in unparameterized (raw) format.
- `sentry-userid` - User ID as set by the user with <Link to="/sdk/unified-api/#scope">`scope.set_user`</Link>.
- `sentry-usersegment` - User segment as set by the user with <Link to="/sdk/unified-api/#scope">`scope.set_user`</Link>.

SDKs must set all of the keys in the form of "`sentry-[name]`".
The prefix "`sentry-`" acts to identify key-value pairs set by Sentry SDKs.
Additionally, we chose `[name]` to be written in "snake case" without any underscore ( `_` ) characters. This naming convention is the most language agnostic.

### Envelope Header

Dynamic Sampling Context is transferred to Sentry through the `trace` envelope header.
The value of this header corresponds directly to the definition of <Link to="/sdk/performance/trace-context/#trace-context">Trace Context</Link>.

When a transaction is reported to Sentry, the Dynamic Sampling Context must be mapped to the `trace` envelope header in the following way:

> - `sentry-traceid` ➝ `trace_id` - **required for Dynamic Sampling to work**

Reviewer 5: why have this mapping? can't we have underscores in the headers? what if we had dashes in the headers and do a `.replace("-", "_")` when serializign to the envelope?

Author: Yup we thought about this too. We opted for this solution because we have to do some kind of mapping anyways because of the way the [user object](http://localhost:8000/sdk/performance/trace-context/#trace-context) is structured.

We cannot cleanly map from flat (header) structure to nested (envelope header). Ideally the user object wouldn't be an object on relay side but just two flat values, `user_id` and `user_segment`.

Does that kinda make sense?

Author: Ok, we just discussed this within the JS SDK team and we agree. We would also strongly prefer to be able to cleanly dump baggage into the envelope header - it's just way cleaner, allows for users to set baggage in the future, plus it allows us to save some bundle size in the SDK.

The problem we currently face is that relay accepts a nested user object and in baggage we have a flat structure:

```
// Let's assume we have have dashes in the baggage keys and do .replace("-", "_") before putting it into the envelope

// we want to dump this baggage header
baggage: sentry-user-id=adsf,sentry-user-segment=blah,sentry-public-key=foo

// into this trace envelope header
{
	public_key: "foo",
	user: {
		id: "adsf",
		segment: "blag"
	}
}
```

:D

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8118419/175056497-2ebc74b9-8d28-4688-b1d5-e706607d782e.png)

It doesn't really work nicely as long `user` is an object. We propose lifting the `user` struct in Relay upwards into two separate values (`user_id` and `user_segment`).

TSC is coming up in 11 minutes. Let's discuss this there for a bit and then note the results here.

Author: As decided in the TSC:
- We will flatten the `user` object in relay into the fields `user_id` and `user_segment` (cc @jjbayer thanks for taking over this 🙇). We should also explore if it is possible to accept both, the nested `user` object and the flattened values - If yes the flattened values should have precedence.
- We will "dump" any values from incoming baggage headers onto the `trace` envelope header by stripping away `sentry-` (I will update the spec accordingly).

Let me know if I missed or misunderstood something.

Reviewer 7: This relates to a comment I left on the doc elsewhere but `sentry-traceid` is redundant in the baggage since it's already also in `sentry-trace`. In that case we would want to however still pass it into the `trace` envelope header.

- `sentry-publickey` ➝ `public_key` - **required for Dynamic Sampling to work**
- `sentry-samplerate` ➝ `sample_rate` - **required for Dynamic Sampling to work**
- `sentry-release` ➝ `release`
- `sentry-environment` ➝ `environment`
- `sentry-transaction` ➝ `transaction`
- `sentry-userid` ➝ `user.id`
- `sentry-usersegment` ➝ `user.segment`

## Unified Propagation Mechanism

SDKs should follow these steps for any incoming and outgoing requests (in python pseudo-code for illustrative purposes):

```python

> def collect_dynamic_sampling_context():

Author: 16d5986408035a4381d5665c250f5acb351f9a75

  if has_header(request, "baggage"):
    outgoing_baggage_dict = baggage_header_to_dict(request.headers.baggage)
    merged_baggage_dict = merge_dicts(outgoing_baggage_dict, transaction.baggage)
    merged_baggage_header = dict_to_baggage_header(merged_baggage_dict)
    set_header(request, "baggage", merged_baggage_header)
  else:
    baggage_header = dict_to_baggage_header(transaction.baggage)
    set_header(request, "baggage", baggage_header)
```

While there is no strict necessity for the `transaction.baggage_locked` flag yet, there is a future use case where we need it:
We might want users to be able to set Dynamic Sampling Context values themselves.
The flag becomes relevant after the first propagation, where Dynamic Sampling Context becomes immutable.
When users attempt to set DSC afterwards, our SDKs should make this operation a noop.

## Considerations and Challenges

This section details some open questions and considerations that need to be addressed for dynamic sampling and the usage of the baggage propogation mechanism. These are not blockers to the adoption of the spec, but instead are here as context for future developments of the dynamic sampling product and spec.

> ### The Temporal Problem

Reviewer 4: Would like some reviews on this section, not sure if I got the examples exactly correct.

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/getsentry/develop/pull/613#pullrequestreview-1018103434
